[WIP] Add ensemble evaluator documentation (#1106)
equinor/ert: docs/rst/manual/experimental/ensemble_evaluator.rst

In addition to launching evaluations, monitoring them and fetching responses, it should also be possible to cancel an evaluation (either the entire evaluation or a subset of the realisations being evaluated). We need to design keeping in mind that:

- the order of the steps might not be possible to deduce up front.
- it makes sense to reevaluate from a failing step, instead of the entire realisation.
- input and output data might be large and hence the data interaction should be in the form of an abstract contract to ensure that an efficient and tailor made implementation can be used without this knowledge leaking into the evaluator.
- the logic of dealing with failing realizations should be moved closer to the core logic of ERT. Automatic restarts or restarts initiated by the user of failing realisations should both be facilitated by the Ensemble Evaluator, but the decision and interaction should be carried out outside the Ensemble Evaluator.

Building an evaluator
---------------------

> Suggestions for designing an mDSL for building an Ensemble Evaluator was given in `#1023 <https://github.com/equinor/ert/issues/1023>`_. There is currently consensus on moving in this direction. More to come...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building an ensemble and evaluator depends on a rich class library where all the constituents are represented. Suggestions for designing an mDSL (miniature domain-specific language) was given in  `#1023 <https://github.com/equinor/ert/issues/1023>`_. There is consensus on moving in this direction, as it allows iteration over the building phase from a top-down point of view. Additionally, the mDSL need not interact with the class library directly—which in the early stages is volatile both in contracts and in implementation. This allows both the high level constituents (``Step``, ``Stage``, et. al,) to vary, as well as the implementation, thus limiting the impact on the mDSL consumers.

A user will not consume the mDSL directly, but rather through a YAML configuration. A translation layer between the config and the mDSL naturally allows the mDSL, the class library *and* config to vary. Principally, it also ensures that the config is merely a user-facing interface, far removed from the implementation. This frees the config to be more *human*, as opposed to a low-level instruction set as the configuration is today.
```

Building from Yaml
------------------

To fuel #1013 the suggested approach is to use the mDSL above to build an Ensemble Evaluator based on an ERT-project, that uses the Ensemble Evaluator exclusively to evaluate an ensemble experiment populating the responses directly into the new storage™️. Hence, if ERT is started with an ERT project / yaml config we should aim at `EnKFMain` never being instantiated.

**Strategy tasks**

Steps
-----

1. Propose first iteration of evaluation API
2. (a) Hide current implementation behind evaluation API (Don't worry about the initialization of the Legacy EE)

   - Refactor run models to use EE
   - Connector simulation tracker to new simulation API (updates) -> This involves hiding the reading of status.json

2. (b) Gradually move important functionality from enkf_main over to Legacy EE (e.g. making parameters.json, runpath init, )
3. When the legacy EE is expressive enough we will create the new config and mDSL

Architecture
------------

.. figure:: images/ee-sketch.png
   :scale: 70%

   Sketch of communication for the Legacy Ensemble Evaluator

Cloudevents
-----------

> Doing a quick survey, it seems that https://cloudevents.io/ is a potential winner. They have also done a survey of `existing event formats <https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/master/primer.md#existing-event-formats>`_, for reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Doing a quick survey, it seems that https://cloudevents.io/ is a good way to decouple distributed systems. They have also done a survey of `existing event formats <https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/master/primer.md#existing-event-formats>`_, for reference.
```

.. code-block::

   - Init
      - data: jobs
   - Failure
      - data: error_msg
   - Success
      - data:
   - Event attributes:
      - id: UUID
      - source: /ert/forward_model/<run_id>:<real>:<step_id>
      - source: /ert/ee/<ee_id>/real/<real_id>/step/<step_id>

.. code-block:: json

   {
      "time": "2015-05-12…",
      "data": "{max_memory_usage: 10000}",
      "source": "/ert/ee/<ee_id>/real/<real_id>/step/<step_id>",
      "type": "com.equinor.ert.ensemble_evaluator.forward_model.step.init",
      "id": "abcdef-123456-…-…",
   }

## Forward Model Stage (Queue Manager)

.. code-block::

   - Start
   - Waiting
   - Pending
   - Running
   - Success
   - Failure
   - Unknown
   - Event attributes:
      - id: UUID
      - source: /ert/forward_model/<something_evaluator_unique>/real/<real_id>

.. code-block:: json

   {
      "time": "2015-05-12…",
      "data": "{}",
      "source": "/ert/ee/<ee_id>/real/<real_id>",
      "type": "com.equinor.ert.ensemble_evaluator.forward_model.stage.waiting",
      "id": "abcdef-123456-…-…",
   }

## Ensemble Evaluator (TBD)

.. code-block::

   - EnsembleResponseEvent
      - data: map(…)
   - Event attributes:
      - id: UUID

>       - source: /ert/ensemble_evaluator/<uuid>

Reviewer: Remove this? It's better to have working code over documentation etc. This is also likely already outdated.
